Documentation for Quickstart, Pairing up, and Layouts and Plugins (#62)
dsg-bielefeld/slurk: docs/slurk_multibots.rst

Pairing up participants and running multiple rooms (and bots)
=============================================================

> In the following steps you will learn how to let bots and human users enter the slurk waiting room where users will be paired up and put into a new task-specific chatroom along with bots. The bot handling this mechanism (moving human users and other bots from the waiting room to the taskroom) is the **pairup bot**. You can find it in the *sample_bots* directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following steps you will learn how to let bots and human users enter the slurk waiting room where users will be paired up and put into a new task-specific chatroom along with bots. We provided an example bot handling this mechanism: The **pairup bot** moves human users and other bots from the waiting room to a taskroom. You can find it in the *sample_bots* directory.
```

Reviewer: We should explicitly state, that **pairup bot** is an example bot. This was also missinterpreted by many of the WG members: It just demonstrates, **how** moving users is working. This is btw. one of the reasons we want to deprecate the sample bots directory in the next version and remove it entirely in 2.0. cc #45

Again, we will start the chat server in development mode and assume that you will use the default values in the config.ini, serving slurk on http://127.0.0.1:5000.

First, we need to log in the bots and then the users.

**Step 1:** 

Open a terminal window and start slurk:

  ``python chat.py``

**Step 2:**

Go to http://127.0.0.1:5000/token and fill in the following:

>   - Source:  *can be anything*

Reviewer: *can be anything* is only partly true as this fields exists for a reason. In this example, ofc, this holds. However in production, this is meant to identify e.g. different sessions.

  - Room:    Waiting Room
  - Task:    None
  - Count:   2	
  - Key:     *the secret key you've defined in the config.ini*
   
Press "Generate tokens".

Now you have two tokens. One token will be used for the pairup bot (*Step 3*) and the other one for the multi bot (*Step 4*). The multi bot serves as an example bot here which will join the users in the taskroom later.
   
**Step 3:**

Open a new terminal window and run the **pairup bot**:

>   ``python sample_bots/pairup_bot.py *token*``

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    .. code-block:: sh

        python sample_bots/pairup_bot.py *token*
```

Replace \*token\* with the first token created in *Step 2*. The pairup bot will enter the waiting room now. You will see a confirmation of this in the terminal window where you started the chat server:
 
  ``ConciergeBot joined room: Waiting Room``
    
*ConciergeBot* is the name of the pairup bot.

**Step 4:**
 
Open a third terminal window and run the **multi bot**:

>   ``python sample_bots/multi_bot.py *token*``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .. code-block:: sh

        python sample_bots/multi_bot.py *token*
```

where \*token\* is to be replaced by the second token created in *Step 2*. The multi bot is also in the waiting room now. Check for confirmation in the terminal window:

  ``MultiBot joined room: Waiting Room``
 
All required bots are registered. In the next steps we need to log in the users.

**Step 5:**

> Open http://127.0.0.1:5000/token again and fill in the following:

Reviewer: Same as above:
```suggestion
Open the server's token page, e.g. http://127.0.0.1:5000/token, again and fill in the following:
```

  - Source:  *can be anything*
  - Room:    Waiting Room
  - Task:    meetup
  - Count:   2	
  - Key:     *the secret key you've defined in the config.ini*

Press "Generate tokens". You will see two tokens.

**Step 6:**

> Open http://127.0.0.1:5000 in a new tab. Fill the first field with a username and the second field with one of the tokens created in *Step 5*. Press "Enter Chatroom". The user will join the waiting room. Next we need a second user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the server (http://127.0.0.1:5000 for this example) in a new tab. Fill the first field with a username and the second field with one of the tokens created in *Step 5*. Press "Enter Chatroom". The user will join the waiting room.

Next we need a second user.
```

  
.. _screenshot_void:
.. figure:: slurk_waitingroom.png
   :align: center
   :scale: 60 %

   A single user in the waiting room, waiting for another player to join

**Step 7:**

> Open http://127.0.0.1:5000 again, but this time in a **different browser**. Fill the first field with a username and the second field with the other token from *Step 5*. Press "Enter Chatroom".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now open the page again, but this time in a **different browser**. Fill the first field with a username and the second field with the other token from *Step 5*. Press "Enter Chatroom".
```

> With two participants being present in the waiting room now the *pairup bot* will open a new chatroom. Both users will be removed from the waiting room and put into the newly created taskroom together with the *multi bot*. Now the users and the multi bot can interact with each other, e.g. you can use the commands **/new_image_private** and **/new_image_public** in the chatroom to see this in action.

Reviewer: It should be stated, that **/new_image_private** and **/new_image_public** is tight to our specific sample bot.
